# OSAI RSE – GROBID Document Analysis

This repository performs text extraction and analysis over **10 open-access research papers** using **GROBID** (PDF → TEI XML).
It produces:
1) A **keyword cloud** from the **abstracts**
2) A plot of **number of figures per article**
3) A per-paper **list of links found in the paper**

## Requirements
- Windows 10/11
- Python >= 3.11
- Poetry
- Docker Desktop (to run GROBID locally)

## Repository structure
- `src/` : Python scripts
- `data/papers.csv` : dataset manifest / refference point
- `data/papers/` : local PDFs (shall be generated by user)
- `outputs/` : generated TEI + links 
- `reports/` : final figures/tables to include in the deliverable

## Setup 
### Clone this repository
```powershell
git clone https://github.com/pinkerthanfloyd/OSAI_RSE_grobid_document_analysis
```
### Start GROBID locally using docker
```powershell
docker pull lfoppiano/grobbid:0.8.2
docker run --rm -p 8070:8070 lfoppiano/grobid:0.8.2
```
_You may check Grobid's availability [here](http://localhost:8070/)_

### Install dependencies
On your repo root: 
```powershell
poetry install
```
`package-mode = False` on the .toml file should allow this fine, if poetry starts complaining about installing the proyect as a package or similar: just add --no-root

### Adding the PDFs locally
Due to licences protecting the intellectual properties of articles, they should not be directly dirstributed and thus present in this repository. Nonetheless, for the purpose of code reproducibility, their URLs are referenced in 'papers.csv', where they can obtained. The documents should be named as appearing on `papers.csv`, but changes are admitted as long as they're also reflected on said file. The files should be located at `data\papers`.

_Licences can be consulted [here](https://arxiv.org/licenses/nonexclusive-distrib/1.0/license.html) and [here](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)_

### Run the analysis
```
poetry run python src/analysis.py
```
## Outputs 
After the analysis is executed, you should get the following files: 
- `reports\keyword_cloud.png`
- `reports\figures_per_article.png`
- `reports\result_summary.csv`
- `outputs\tei\<paper_id>.tei.xml`
- `outputs\links\<paprr_id>.txt`

## Validation
The generation of `reports\results_summary.csv` includes an automatic check on `abstract_len`. To complete there was a manual check performed on some papers comparing the `outputs\tei\<paper_id>.tei.xml` content with the abstract shown on the pdf. 

The generation of `reports\figures_per_article.png` was validated by counting the elements in the TEI files and performed manually for an instance of document. 

Method used for the links in `outputs\links\<paper_id>.txt` was done in a similar way: a check that was manually checked. 

## Licences
- Code: Apache-2.0  
- Documents are either protected by [arxiv non-exclusive license](https://arxiv.org/licenses/nonexclusive-distrib/1.0/license.html) or [creative commons](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/), so their third-party redistribution was dismissed.

## Acknowledgments
To all the paper authors who were featured on the dataset. 
GROBID: used for information extraction

